We just discussed an objective
for policy optimization.
The next step is to figure
out how the agent can
optimize it based on
its own experience.
In this video, we' will
describe the policy
gradient theorem.
This is a key theoretical result.
It allows us to write
the gradient of
the average reward so that it is
easier to estimate
from experience.
After watching this video,
you will be able to
describe the result of
the policy gradient theorem and
understand the importance of
the policy gradient theorem.
To optimize the mean
squared value error,
we used methods based on
Stochastic gradient ascent.
We estimate the negative of
the gradient of our objective
and adjust the weights of
the value function
in that direction.
Policy gradient methods
use a similar approach,
but with the average
reward objective
and the policy parameters theta.
We want to maximize
the average reward rather
than minimizing it.
This means we do
gradient ascent and
move in the direction of
the positive gradient.
Remember that a simple recipe
for solving a problem is to first
specify an objective then
estimate the gradient
of that objective,
and finally, adjust
the weights in that direction.
Step one is done.
Now, the next step is to
estimate the gradient
of our objective.
Recall the average
reward objective,
let's compute the gradient.
We can apply the product
rule of calculus
to the objective to
yield two terms.
This looks pretty complex.
So let's look at it
a bit more closely.
The first term involves
the gradient of
the stationary
distribution overstates.
Unfortunately, the gradient of
mu is not straightforward
to estimate.
The stationary
distribution mu depends on
a long-term interaction between
the policy and the environment.
Luckily, the policy
gradient theorem
gives us a simpler expression
for this gradient.
Here we show the results
of the theorem.
It's worth walking
through this expression.
In the inner sum, we
have the gradient of
the policy times
the action value function.
Let's try to understand
this term a little better.
The gradient of the policy
is easy to compute as
long as our policy parameterization
is differentiable.
The gradient of the policy
tells you how to adjust
your parameters to increase
the probability of
a certain action.
Consider the simple
grid world shown here.
As usual, the agent can move up,
down, left or right.
For simplicity, let's
assume the policy
is controlled by
just two parameters.
The parameters are currently
set to the point marked here.
The arrows indicate the agent's
action probabilities in
a particular state with
the current parameter settings.
The gradient for
the up action might
look something like
this on the plot.
The gradient tells us how to
change the policy parameters to
make that action more
likely to be selected
in the given state.
By moving the parameters in
the direction of the gradient,
we increase the probability
for the up action.
This necessarily
means decrease in
the probability of some
of the other actions.
Different actions have
different gradients.
For example, the gradient of
the left action probability
may look like this.
Moving the parameters
in that direction will
increase the probability
of the left action,
and decrease the probability
of some of the other actions.
This might all sound
a bit abstract.
We will show concrete examples of
computing this gradient
in the coming lectures.
Now, let's bring some reward into
the situation and think about
what this whole term means.
This is a sum over
the gradients of
each action probability weighted
by the value of
the associated action.
Imagine, we've added a rewarding
state in the bottom right.
The up and left actions move away
from it and should
have negative value.
The down and right actions
move toward it,
and should have positive value.
The precise values will
depend on the current policy.
But let's say they look
something like this.
The weighted sum gives
a direction to move
the parameters that decreases
the probability of moving up or
right since their value
is negative,
while increasing
the probability of moving down
or left since
their value is positive.
That direction might
look like this.
The gradient expression given by
the policy gradient theorem takes
this expression and sums
that over each state.
This gives the direction to
move the policy parameters to
most rapidly increase
the overall average reward.
That's it. We now have
a simple expression
for the gradient.
Importantly, this expression does
not contain the gradient of
the state distribution mu,
which is challenging to estimate.
The proof of the policy
gradient theorem
can be found in
the course textbook.
As we will see in
the next lecture,
this gradient is
straightforward to estimate.
That means we will
be able to build
an incremental policy
gradient algorithm
using an agent's experience.
That's it for this video.
You should now understand how
the policy gradient theorem
gives us an expression for
the gradient of
the average reward,
and understand the terms in
the gradient. See you next time.